ENG-24976 - initial draft of documentation to configure milvus, kserv… (#812)
opendatahub-io/opendatahub-documentation: modules/deploying-a-llama-model-with-kserve.adoc

. Click the *Deploy model* button.
+
The *Deploy model* dialog opens.
. Configure the deployment properties for your model:
.. In the *Model deployment name* field, enter a unique name for your deployment.
.. In the *Serving runtime* field, select `vLLM NVIDIA GPU serving runtime for KServe` from the drop-down list.
.. In the *Deployment mode* field, select `Standard` from the drop-down list.
.. Set *Number of model server replicas to deploy* to `1`.
.. In the *Model server size* field, select `Custom` from the drop-down list.
.. :
+
--
* Set *CPUs requested* to `1 core`.
* Set *Memory requested* to `10 GiB`.
* Set *CPU limit* to `1 core`.
* Set *Memory limit* to `10 GiB`.
* Set *Accelerator* to `NVIDIA GPUs`.
* Set *Accelerator count* to `1`.
--
.. From the *Connection type*, select a relevant data connection from the drop-down list.
. In the *Additional serving runtime arguments* field, specify the following recommended arguments:
+
[source,shell]
----
--dtype=half
--max-model-len=20000
--gpu-memory-utilization=0.95
--enable-chunked-prefill
--enable-auto-tool-choice
--tool-call-parser=llama3_json
--chat-template=/app/data/template/tool_chat_template_llama3.2_json.jinja
----

> .. Click *Deploy*.

Author: Added this note at the end:

Model deployment can take several minutes, especially for the first model that is deployed on the cluster. Initial deployment may take more than 10 minutes while the relevant images download.

.. Copy the *Log in with this token* command and paste it in the OpenShift command-line interface (CLI).
+
[source,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc login --token=__<token>__ --server=__<openshift_cluster_url>__
----
.. Enter the following command to verify that the `kserve-controller-manager` and `odh-model-controller` pods are running:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n opendatahub | grep -E 'kserve-controller-manager|odh-model-controller'
----
+
.. Confirm that you see output similar to the following example:
+
[source,subs="+quotes"]
----
kserve-controller-manager-7c865c9c9f-xyz12   1/1     Running   0          4m21s
odh-model-controller-7b7d5fd9cc-wxy34        1/1     Running   0          3m55s
----
+
.. If you do not see either of the `kserve-controller-manager` and `odh-model-controller` pods, there could be a problem with your deployment. In addition, if the pods appear in the list, but their `Status` is not set to `Running`, check the pod logs for errors:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc logs <pod-name> -n opendatahub
----
+
.. Check the status of the inference service:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get inferenceservice -n llamastack

> $ oc get pods -n llamastack | grep llama

Author: Changed to a placeholder for the data science project name.

----
* The deployment automatically creates the following resources:
** A `ServingRuntime` resource.
** An `InferenceService` resource, a `Deployment`, a pod, and a service pointing to the pod.

> * To verify that the server is running, check for output similar to the following example log:

Author: Added an example command.

:_module-type: PROCEDURE

[id="Deploying-a-llama-model-with-kserve_{context}"]
= Deploying a Llama model with KServe

[role='_abstract']

> To use Llama Stack and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) workloads in {productname-short}, you must deploy a Llama model with a vLLM model server and configure KServe in raw deployment mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Llama Stack and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) workloads in {productname-short}, you must deploy a Llama model with a vLLM model server and configure KServe in standard deployment mode.
```

Author: Changed to your suggestion in the latest commit.

.Prerequisites

* You have logged in to {productname-long}.
* You have cluster administrator privileges for your {openshift-platform} cluster.
* You have installed the Llama Stack Operator. 
ifdef::upstream[]
For more information, see link:{odhdocshome}/working-with-rag/#installing-the-llama-stack-operator_rag[Installing the Llama Stack Operator].
endif::[]
* You have installed KServe.
ifdef::upstream[]
* You have enabled the single-model serving platform. For more information about enabling the single-model serving platform, see link:{odhdocshome}/serving-models/#deploying-models-using-the-single-model-serving-platform_serving-large-models[Enabling the single-model serving platform^].
endif::[]
ifndef::upstream[]
* You have enabled the single-model serving platform. For more information about enabling the single-model serving platform, see link:{rhoaidocshome}{default-format-url}/serving_models/serving-large-models_serving-large-models#enabling-the-single-model-serving-platform_serving-large-models[Enabling the single-model serving platform^].
endif::[]

> * You have not disabled the ability to select the single-model serving platform in the dashboard configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can select the single-model serving platform in the dashboard configuration. 
```
The double negatives here are tripping me up - can we simplify or reduce the amount of negatives?

Author: Simplified line 24 to be close to your suggestion in the latest commit.

* You have created a storage connection with a `URI - v1` connection type. This storage connection must define the location of your Llama 3.2 model artifacts. For example, `oci://quay.io/redhat-ai-services/modelcar-catalog:llama-3.2-3b-instruct`. 
ifdef::upstream[]
For more information about creating storage connections, see link:{odhdocshome}/working-on-data-science-projects/#adding-a-connection-to-your-data-science-project_projects[Adding a connection to your data science project].
endif::[] 
ifndef::upstream[]
For more information about creating storage connections, see link:{rhoaidocshome}/html/working_on_data_science_projects/using-connections_projects#adding-a-connection-to-your-data-science-project_projects[Adding a connection to your data science project]. 
endif::[]

.Procedure

[IMPORTANT]
====
For {productname-short} versions before 2.20, you must configure the `DSCI` (DataScienceClusterInitialization) and `DSC` (DataScienceCluster) resources in KServe standard mode before deploying a vLLM instance. In {productname-short} versions 2.20 and later, you can deploy the model by selecting *Standard model* in the UI without changing the `DSC` resource.

> ====

Author: Removed the steps pertaining to previous versions and simplified the note.

. Log in to the {openshift-platform} as a cluster administrator.
. In the web console, click *Operators* → *Installed Operators* and then click the {productname-long} Operator.
. Configure the `DSCI` custom resource:
.. Click the *DSC Initialization* tab.
.. Click the *default-dsci* object.
.. Click the *YAML* tab.
.. Update `.spec.serviceMesh.managementState` to `Removed`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  applicationsNamespace: redhat-ods-applications
  monitoring:
    managementState: Managed
    namespace: redhat-ods-monitoring
  serviceMesh:
    controlPlane:
      metricsCollection: Istio
      name: data-science-smcp
      namespace: istio-system
    managementState: Removed
----
.. Click *Save*.

. Configure the `DSC` custom resource:
.. Click the *Data Science Cluster* tab.
.. Click the *default-dsc* object.
.. Click the *YAML* tab.
.. Update `spec.components.kserve` as shown in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
kserve:
  defaultDeploymentMode: RawDeployment
  RawDeploymentServiceConfig: Headed
  managementState: Managed
  serving:
    managementState: Removed
    name: knative-serving
----
.. Click *Save*.

> This configuration disables service mesh integration for the vLLM deployment and sets KServe to raw deployment mode. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration disables service mesh integration for the vLLM deployment and sets KServe to standard deployment mode. 
```

Author: Changed to your suggestion in the latest commit.

. Click the *Deploy model* button.
+
The *Deploy model* dialog opens.
. Configure the deployment properties for your model:
.. In the *Model deployment name* field, enter a unique name for your deployment.
.. In the *Serving runtime* field, select `vLLM NVIDIA GPU serving runtime for KServe` from the drop-down list.
.. In the *Deployment mode* field, select `Standard` from the drop-down list.
.. Set *Number of model server replicas to deploy* to `1`.
.. In the *Model server size* field, select `Custom` from the drop-down list.
.. :
+
--
* Set *CPUs requested* to `1 core`.
* Set *Memory requested* to `10 GiB`.
* Set *CPU limit* to `1 core`.
* Set *Memory limit* to `10 GiB`.
* Set *Accelerator* to `NVIDIA GPUs`.
* Set *Accelerator count* to `1`.
--
.. From the *Connection type*, select a relevant data connection from the drop-down list.
. In the *Additional serving runtime arguments* field, specify the following recommended arguments:
+
[source,shell]
----
--dtype=half
--max-model-len=20000
--gpu-memory-utilization=0.95
--enable-chunked-prefill
--enable-auto-tool-choice
--tool-call-parser=llama3_json
--chat-template=/app/data/template/tool_chat_template_llama3.2_json.jinja
----

> .. Click the *Deploy* button to start the deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Click *Deploy*.
```

+
[source,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc login --token=__<token>__ --server=__<openshift_cluster_url>__
----
.. Enter the following command to verify that the `kserve-controller-manager` and `odh-model-controller` pods are running:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n opendatahub | grep -E 'kserve-controller-manager|odh-model-controller'
----
+
.. Confirm that you see output similar to the following example:
+
[source,subs="+quotes"]
----
kserve-controller-manager-7c865c9c9f-xyz12   1/1     Running   0          4m21s
odh-model-controller-7b7d5fd9cc-wxy34        1/1     Running   0          3m55s
----
+
.. If you do not see either of the `kserve-controller-manager` and `odh-model-controller` pods, there could be a problem with your deployment. In addition, if the pods appear in the list, but their `Status` is not set to `Running`, check the pod logs for errors:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc logs <pod-name> -n opendatahub
----
+
.. Check the status of the inference service:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get inferenceservice -n llamastack
$ oc get pods -n llamastack | grep llama
----
* The deployment automatically creates the following resources:
** A `ServingRuntime` resource.

> ** An `InferenceService` resource, a `Deployment`, a Pod, and a Service pointing to the Pod.

Author: Changed to your suggestion in the latest commit.
